# ``OpenAPIRuntime``

Use and extend your client and server code generated by Swift OpenAPI Generator.

## Overview

This library provides common abstractions and helper functions used by the client and server code generated by [Swift OpenAPI Generator][0].

It contains:
- Common types used in the code generated by the `swift-openapi-generator` package plugin.
- Protocol definitions for pluggable layers, including ``ClientTransport``, ``ServerTransport``, ``ClientMiddleware``, and ``ServerMiddleware``.

Many of the HTTP currency types used are defined in the [Swift HTTP Types](https://github.com/apple/swift-http-types) library.

> Tip: Check out the [example projects](https://swiftpackageindex.com/apple/swift-openapi-generator/documentation/swift-openapi-generator/checking-out-an-example-project) focused on middlewares.

### Usage

Add the package dependency in your `Package.swift`:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/apple/swift-openapi-runtime", from: "1.0.0"),
```

Next, in your target, add `OpenAPIRuntime` to your dependencies:

```swift
.target(name: "MyTarget", dependencies: [
    .product(name: "OpenAPIRuntime", package: "swift-openapi-runtime"),
]),
```

The next step depends on your use case.

#### Using Swift OpenAPI Generator for code generation

The generated code depends on types from this library. Check out the adoption guides in the [Swift OpenAPI Generator documentation][1] to see how the packages fit together.

#### Implementing transports and middlewares

Swift OpenAPI Generator generates client and server code that is designed to be used with pluggable transports and middlewares.

Implement a new transport or middleware by providing a type that adopts one of the protocols from the runtime library:

* ``ClientTransport``
* ``ClientMiddleware``
* ``ServerTransport``
* ``ServerMiddleware``

You can also publish your transport or middleware as a Swift package to allow others to use it with their generated code.

## Topics

### Essentials
- ``ClientTransport``
- ``ServerTransport``
- ``ClientMiddleware``
- ``ServerMiddleware``

### Customization
- ``Configuration``
- ``DateTranscoder``
- ``ISO8601DateTranscoder``
- ``MultipartBoundaryGenerator``
- ``RandomMultipartBoundaryGenerator``
- ``ConstantMultipartBoundaryGenerator``
- ``IterationBehavior``

### Content types
- ``HTTPBody``
- ``Base64EncodedData``
- ``MultipartBody``
- ``MultipartRawPart``
- ``MultipartPart``
- ``MultipartDynamicallyNamedPart``

### Errors
- ``ClientError``
- ``ServerError``
- ``UndocumentedPayload``

### HTTP Currency Types
- ``HTTPBody``
- ``ServerRequestMetadata``
- ``AcceptableProtocol``
- ``AcceptHeaderContentType``
- ``QualityValue``

### Dynamic Payloads
- ``OpenAPIValueContainer``
- ``OpenAPIObjectContainer``
- ``OpenAPIArrayContainer``

[0]: https://github.com/apple/swift-openapi-generator
[1]: https://swiftpackageindex.com/apple/swift-openapi-generator/documentation
